Build website with nextjs (#875)
eleven-labs/blog.eleven-labs.com: _posts/en/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs.md

---

This post is about the NextJS basics and a guide to build a simple website with this framework.

## What is NextJS

NextJS is a production-grade React framework. It permits the creation of all kinds of React applications, especially hybrid ones with static (SSG) and server-side components rendering (SSR). It is hostable on multiple hosting types, from a simple web server (for SSG) to a Node.js server for server-side rendering (SSR).

A questio come, Why should I use NextJS to create my website?

## Why you should build your website with NextJS

Let’s see a few pros on why construct a website with the NextJS framework:

* React: it is a powerful component-oriented framework to construct a great UI or website. Moreover, if you are a React developer, you will not be lost and be productive on the website development.
* You can generate static assets and easily host them on a simple HTTP server or in a static host like AWS S3.
* It is easy to install. It comes with all tools to develop already configured. You can quickly start your development.

Now, we will learn how to build a website with NextJS. We’ll see the basics of the framework.

## Project example: AstroTeams

> Let’s build a website about the astronauts' teams of eleven labs.

Reviewer: With capital letters because we're kings 👑 
```suggestion
Let’s build a website about the astronauts' teams of Eleven Labs.
```

          <div className={styles["team-description"]}>
            <div className={styles["team-description__txt"]}>Pandas who made some donuts from the Donuts planet.</div>
            <Button className="red-background" onClick={(e) => handleTeamPageClick(e, "donuts-factory")}>READ MORE</Button>
          </div>
        </Card>
        <Card backgroundColorClass="yellow-background" imagePath="/racoon-logo.png" imageAlt="Eleven Labs Racoon Team" title="Raccoons of Asgard">
          <div className={styles["team-description"]}>
            <div className={styles["team-description__txt"]}>Racoons guardian of the galaxy from the great Asgard planet.</div>
            <Button className="yellow-background" onClick={(e) => handleTeamPageClick(e, "asgard-racoons")}>READ MORE</Button>
          </div>
        </Card>
      </FlexContainer>
    </>
  )
}
```

> **Note**: don't forget to add the CSS rules. They are in the `src/styles/Home.module.css. All CSS modules for pages are in this folder.

![Website Home Page](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/homepage.png)

> The `src/pages/index.js` and `src/components/Layout.js` components contain redirections to other website pages, but they don't exist yet. Let's learn how to create these pages NextJS.

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
The `src/pages/index.js` and `src/components/Layout.js` components contain redirections to other website pages, but they don't exist yet. Let's learn how to create these pages with NextJS.
```

`src/pages/[team].js`
```js
export function getStaticProps({ params }) {
    const { teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition } = teamsData.find(team => team.name === params.team)

    return { props: { teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition } }
}
```

We find the content from the JSON file and construct the page props. Now let's create the page content:

`src/pages/[team].js`:
```js
export default function Team({ teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition }) {
    return <TeamCard
        teamName={teamName}
        teamDescription={teamDescription}
        teamImagePath={teamImagePath}
        teamPlanetPath={teamPlanetPath}
        teamCounter={teamCounter}
        teamPosition={teamPosition}
    />
}
```

We pass our props to a component to render the page content. Now if you click on the read more button, you can see a team page:

![Team Page](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/teampage.png)

Now we have a website ready to be published. Now, let's sum up feedback about building this website.

## Feedback

> ere's what we learned building this small website:

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
Here's what we learned building this small website:
```

---
layout: post
title: How To Build Your Website With NextJS
excerpt: Tutorial on the basics of NextJS for building a website.
authors:
- aamara
permalink: /en/how-to-build-your-website-with-nextjs
categories:
    - Javascript
    - React
tags:
    - React
    - NextJS
    - JamStack
---

This post is about the NextJS basics and a guide to building a simple website with this framework.

## What is NextJS

NextJS is a production-grade React framework. It permits the creation of all kinds of React applications. Especially its support for hybrid static (SSG) and server-side components rendering (SSR). Finally, it is hostable on multiple hosting types from a simple web server (for SSG) or serves your app with NextJS server for server-side rendering (SSR).

> But this framework is for building a web application with some user interfaces. Why create a website with NextJS?

Reviewer: I don't understand the meaning of the "But" phrase here 🤔

> ## Why you should construct your website with NextJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why you should build your website with NextJS
```

Let’s see a few pros on why construct a website with the NextJS framework:

* React: it is a powerful component-oriented framework to construct a great UI or website. Moreover, if you are a React developer, you will not be lost and be productive on the website development.
* You can generate static assets and easily host them on a simple HTTP server or in a static host like AWS S3.
* It is easy to install. It comes with all tools to develop already configured. You can quickly start your development.

Now, we will learn how to build a website with NextJS. We’ll see the basics of the framework.

## Project example: AstroTeams

Let’s build a website about the astronauts' teams of eleven labs.

First, install NextJS and start the project.

### NextJS Installation

To create a project, use the create-next-app package.

> * install NextJS project:

Reviewer: I would delete this line as it sounds redundant with the previous one to me.
```suggestion
```

```shell
npx create-next-app astroteams
```

> * Or clone the git repo example and checkout the get-started branch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also clone the git repository of this tutorial:
```

```shell
git clone <repo>
git checkout get-started
```

> **Note**: the branch contains all the components needed to construct the pages. All reusable components are in the src/components folder.

> ### Create the index page
> 
> First, create the index page of the website, like a static website the index page is in `src/pages/index.js.
> 
> > **Note**: all website pages are in the `src/pages` folder.
> 
> To start, delete the index.js content, to start from a blank page and not with the NextJS welcome page.
> 
> Now, we need to build our website layout, let's create a reusable React component and integrate it in the global NextJS App component to see it in each generated pages.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create the index page

To start, delete the `src/pages/index.js` content, to start from a blank page and not with the NextJS welcome page.
Now, we need to build our website layout, let's create a reusable React component and integrate it in the global NextJS App component to see it in each generated pages.

> **Note**: all website pages are in the `src/pages` folder.

```

        <ElevenLabsLogo />
        { pageContent }
      </FlexContainer>
      { isHomePage && <SpaceCraftButton onClick={handleContactClick}>Contact</SpaceCraftButton> }
    </main>

    <footer className={styles.footer}>
      <Image
        alt="Eleven Labs Logo"
        src="/logo-eleven-labs-large.png"
        objectFit="contain"
        width="150px"
        height="50px"
        priority
      />
      <div className={styles["footer__label"]}>NextJS Demo App</div>
    </footer>
  </div>
}

Layout.propTypes = {
  /**
   * Page content
  */
  children: PropTypes.node.isRequired,
}
```

> **Note**: don't forget to add the styling in the CSS module. Also, export your component in the index.js.

Now, add the component to the `src/pages/_app.js`:

```js
// Components
import { Layout } from "../components/Layout"

// Global CSS
import "../styles/globals.css"

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return <Layout><Component {...pageProps} /></Layout>
}

export default MyApp
```

Now, each page generated from the pages folder, add the Layout, we can see it in our index page:

![astro teams layout](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/website-layout.png)

> Now, just add the HTML content for the index page.

Reviewer: I had the feeling that I had to do this by myself, but that what you will explain in next part, am I wrong? :) 

```suggestion
Now, we will add the HTML content for the index page.
```

### Create the index page content

> * Just add HTML content with a JSX template to have the page content:

Reviewer: Same as before, no need to start a list here 😉 

```suggestion
Just add HTML content with a JSX template to have the page content:
```

          <div className={styles["team-description"]}>
            <div className={styles["team-description__txt"]}>Pandas who made some donuts from the Donuts planet.</div>
            <Button className="red-background" onClick={(e) => handleTeamPageClick(e, "donuts-factory")}>READ MORE</Button>
          </div>
        </Card>
        <Card backgroundColorClass="yellow-background" imagePath="/racoon-logo.png" imageAlt="Eleven Labs Racoon Team" title="Raccoons of Asgard">
          <div className={styles["team-description"]}>
            <div className={styles["team-description__txt"]}>Racoons guardian of the galaxy from the great Asgard planet.</div>
            <Button className="yellow-background" onClick={(e) => handleTeamPageClick(e, "asgard-racoons")}>READ MORE</Button>
          </div>
        </Card>
      </FlexContainer>
    </>
  )
}
```

> **Note**: don't forget to add the CSS rules. They are in the `src/styles/Home.module.css. All CSS modules for pages are in this folder.

![Website Home Page](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/homepage.png)

> The index.js and Layout.js components contain redirections to other website pages, but they don't exist yet. Let's learn how to create these pages NextJS.

Reviewer: Some Markdown emphasis for file names. Can you also add the path of each file?

```suggestion
The `index.js` and `Layout.js` components contain redirections to other website pages, but they don't exist yet. Let's learn how to create these pages NextJS.
```

```shell
touch src/pages/contact.js
```

`src/pages/contact.js`:
```js
// Components
import { PageCard } from "../components/PageCard"
import { FlexContainer, ORIENTATION } from "../components/FlexContainer"

export default function Contact() {
    return <>
    </>
}
```

Now we have an empty page for `/contact`. Just add the content and, it is done:

```js
// Components
import { PageCard } from "../components/PageCard"
import { FlexContainer, ORIENTATION } from "../components/FlexContainer"

export default function Contact() {
    return <>
        <h2>Contact Eleven Labs</h2>
        <PageCard>
            <FlexContainer orientation={ORIENTATION.VERTICAL}>
                <h3>Eleven Labs</h3>
                <div>PARIS</div>
                <div>15, avenue de la Grande Armée</div>
                <div>75116 PARIS</div>
                <div><a href="mailto:contact@eleven-labs.com">contact@eleven-labs.com</a></div>
            </FlexContainer>
        </PageCard>
    </>
}
```

![Contact Page](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/contactpage.png)

> Now we have a contact page. The website needs one page for each astronaut's team. To do that, create a route with the team name as a parameter.

Reviewer: Same as before, I had the feeling that I had to do it by myself, although you're going to go through that after. I think it is clearer like this :)

```suggestion
Now we have a contact page, the website needs one page for each astronaut's team. To do that, we will create a route with the team name as a parameter.
```

Now we can parse the props for the team page:

`src/pages/[team].js`
```js
export function getStaticProps({ params }) {
    const { teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition } = teamsData.find(team => team.name === params.team)

    return { props: { teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition } }
}
```

We find the content from the JSON file and construct the page props. Now let's create the page content:

`src/pages/[team].js`:
```js
export default function Team({ teamName, teamDescription, teamImagePath, teamPlanetPath, teamCounter, teamPosition }) {
    return <TeamCard
        teamName={teamName}
        teamDescription={teamDescription}
        teamImagePath={teamImagePath}
        teamPlanetPath={teamPlanetPath}
        teamCounter={teamCounter}
        teamPosition={teamPosition}
    />
}
```

We pass our props to a component to render the page content. Now if you click on the read more button, you can see a team page:

![Team Page](assets/2022-01-26-build-website-with-nextjs/teampage.png)

> Now we have a website ready to be published. Now, let's have a return of experience about building this website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have a website ready to be published. Now, let's sum up feedback about building this website.
```

> ## Return of experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Feedback
```

> Let's see some comments about building this website example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's what we learned building this small website:
```

> * * Easy to init: the project is super easy to init with create-next-app and, it is ready to construct, build and deploy with any additional configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Easy to init: the project is super easy to init with create-next-app and is ready to be built and deployed without any additional configurations.
```

> Comes with tooling: the project comes with some tooling like pre-configured Eslint configurations or some pre-configured npm scripts. The Eslint configuration can be better but, it is a good starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Comes with tooling: the project comes with some tooling like pre-configured Eslint configurations or some pre-configured npm scripts. The Eslint configuration can be better but, it is a good starting point.
```

> * React: It is easy to construct with the power of React components if you know it for sure. Moreover, you can construct a lot of reusable things across your website. Finally, if you need it, you can also take some React components from npm and use them on your website.

Reviewer: I didn't say it before, but prefer using "build" over "construct" 

```suggestion
* React: It is easy to build with the power of React components if you know it. Moreover, you can build a lot of reusable things across your website. Finally, if you need it, you can also take some React components from npm and use them on your website.
```
